# Project 0: Getting Real

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

FirstName LastName <email@domain.example>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the TAs, please give them here.



>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course text, lecture notes, and course staff.



## Booting Pintos

>A1: Put the screenshot of Pintos running example here.



## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>B1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?

The first instruction seems to be `sub %ax, %ax` in the loader.S


>B2: At which physical address is this instruction located?

The loader should put it at 0x7c00.


#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>B3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?

Bootloader reads disk sector in the `read_sector` subroutine. It takes a drive number in %dl and a sector number in %ebx, and reads the specified sector into memory at ES:0000. The read_mbr subroutine set %es to 0x2000. The physical address ES:0000 would be calculated as `(0x2000 << 4) + 0x0000 = 0x20000`. The CF of 1 indicates that errors occurred while reading.

The `int $0x13` instruction invokes the BIOS interrupt handler for disk services.

The `int $0x14` instruction is used for printing communication messages.

The `int $0x18` interrupt is issued if the boot failed because no bootable partition was found (in here).

>B4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?

We read up to 512 kB from the disk (the disk needs to be MBR partitioned), %cx register is used to keep track of the number of sectors read (up to 1024 since each sector is of 512 bytes). If the read was successful, we calculate the memory location of the start function and jump to it. The address is stored in memory, so we employ an indirect long jump.

>B5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?

The `int $0x18` interrupt is issued if the boot failed.

>B6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?

When the kernel was successfully read and after estimating location of the start function `ljmp *start`.

#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>B7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

The return value is 0x0. The `init_page_dir` is not initialized yet. `ptov(0)` return virtual address of the physical address 0, while `pd_no()` returns page directory index from a virtual address. I suppose we have only one level of page directories. 

>B8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> B8.1 what does the call stack look like?

```
#0  palloc_get_page (flags=(PAL_ASSERT | PAL_ZERO)) at ../../threads/palloc.c:113
#1  0xc00203aa in paging_init () at ../../threads/init.c:168
#2  0xc002031b in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:100
#3  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
```

>> B8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?

The return value of `palloc_get_page()` is `0xc0101000`. This function obtains a single free page and returns its kernel virtual address.

>> B8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

Still 0x0.

>B9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

>> B9.1 what does the call stack look like?

```
#0  thread_create (name=0xc002e895 "idle", priority=0, function=0xc0020eb0 <idle>, aux=0xc000efbc) at ../../threads/thread.c:179
#1  0xc0020976 in thread_start () at ../../threads/thread.c:111
#2  0xc0020334 in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:119
#3  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
```

>> B9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?

The return value is 0xc0103000.

>> B9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

The return value is 0x102027.

## Kernel Monitor

>C1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>C2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.
